{\rtf1\ansi\deff3\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset2 Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f3\froman\fprq2\fcharset128 Liberation Serif{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f4\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset128 Liberation Sans{\*\falt Arial};}{\f5\fswiss\fprq0\fcharset128 Arial;}{\f6\froman\fprq2\fcharset128 Arial;}{\f7\froman\fprq0\fcharset128 Arial;}{\f8\froman\fprq2\fcharset128 Times New Roman;}{\f9\froman\fprq0\fcharset128 Times New Roman;}{\f10\fnil\fprq2\fcharset128 Droid Sans;}{\f11\fnil\fprq2\fcharset128 Lohit Hindi;}{\f12\fnil\fprq0\fcharset128 Lohit Hindi;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue128;\red128\green128\blue128;\red0\green0\blue1;}
{\stylesheet{\s0\snext0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\hich\af10\langfe2052\dbch\af11\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang2057 Normal;}
{\s1\sbasedon18\snext19\ilvl0\outlinelevel0\ql\widctlpar\faauto\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb240\sa60\keepn\b\kerning1\hich\af10\langfe1033\dbch\af11\afs28\loch\f5\fs32\lang1033 Heading 1;}
{\*\cs15\snext15 Footnote Characters;}
{\*\cs16\snext16{\*\updnprop5801}\up10 Footnote anchor;}
{\*\cs17\snext17\cf2\ul\ulc0\langfe255\alang255\lang255 Internet Link;}
{\s18\sbasedon0\snext19\sb240\sa120\keepn\hich\af10\dbch\af11\afs28\loch\f4\fs28 Heading;}
{\s19\sbasedon0\snext19\sb0\sa120 Text body;}
{\s20\sbasedon19\snext20\sb0\sa120\dbch\af12 List;}
{\s21\sbasedon0\snext21\sb120\sa120\noline\i\dbch\af12\afs24\ai\fs24 Caption;}
{\s22\sbasedon0\snext22\noline\dbch\af12 Index;}
{\s23\snext23\ql\widctlpar\faauto\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\langfe1033\cf0\kerning1\hich\af10\dbch\af11\afs24\alang1081\fs20\lang1033\loch\f3 footnote text;}
{\s24\sbasedon0\snext24\li339\ri0\lin339\rin0\fi-339\noline\afs20\fs20 Footnote;}
{\s25\sbasedon0\snext25\li567\ri567\lin567\rin567\fi0\sb0\sa283 Quotations;}
}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1
{\listlevel\levelnfc255\leveljc0\levelstartat1\levelfollow0{\leveltext \'00;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-432\li432}
{\listlevel\levelnfc255\leveljc0\levelstartat1\levelfollow0{\leveltext \'00;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-576\li576}
{\listlevel\levelnfc255\leveljc0\levelstartat1\levelfollow0{\leveltext \'00;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-720\li720}
{\listlevel\levelnfc255\leveljc0\levelstartat1\levelfollow0{\leveltext \'00;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-864\li864}
{\listlevel\levelnfc255\leveljc0\levelstartat1\levelfollow0{\leveltext \'00;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-1008\li1008}
{\listlevel\levelnfc255\leveljc0\levelstartat1\levelfollow0{\leveltext \'00;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-1152\li1152}
{\listlevel\levelnfc255\leveljc0\levelstartat1\levelfollow0{\leveltext \'00;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-1296\li1296}
{\listlevel\levelnfc255\leveljc0\levelstartat1\levelfollow0{\leveltext \'00;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-1440\li1440}
{\listlevel\levelnfc255\leveljc0\levelstartat1\levelfollow0{\leveltext \'00;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-1584\li1584}\listid1}
}{\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}{\info{\author Nate}{\creatim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}{\revtim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}{\printim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}{\comment LibreOffice}{\vern3500}}\deftab720\deftab720

{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1800\margrsxn1800\margtsxn1440\margbsxn1440\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
\formshade{\*\pgdscno0}\paperh15840\paperw12240\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\sectd\sbknone\sectunlocked1\pgndec\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1800\margrsxn1800\margtsxn1440\margbsxn1440\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pgndec\pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\hich\af10\langfe2052\dbch\af11\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang2057\qc{\b\afs36\ab\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs36\loch\f8
"ODF Alliance" formed to support OpenDocument format }
\par \pard\plain \s19\sb0\sa120\qc{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s19\sb0\sa120\ql{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
3/3/2006 8:25:36 PM, by }{{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "mailto:jeremy@arstechnica.com" }{\fldrslt \cf2\ul\ulc0\langfe255\alang255\lang255\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Jeremy Reimer}}}
\par \pard\plain \s19\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
A consortium of companies and organizations have banded together to form the }{{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "http://www.odfalliance.org/news.asp" }{\fldrslt \cf2\ul\ulc0\langfe255\alang255\lang255\rtlch \ltrch\loch
"ODF Alliance,"}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}} a group dedicated to promoting the office software file format first implemented by OpenOffice.org. The alliance consists of more than 35 members from various countries around the world. It includes companies such as Red Hat, IBM, Novell, Sun Microsystems, and Corel, and governmental organizations such as the American Library Association and the Information and Communications Technology council for the city of Vienna.}
\par \pard\plain \s19\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The}{\b\ab\rtlch \ltrch\loch
 OpenDocument}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
 file format was formed by the industry consortium OASIS, a group headed by Sun Microsystems, and was based on OpenOffice.org's native file format. OpenOffice.org is itself an open-sourced version of Star Office, the proprietary office suite that Sun purchased when it acquired the German company Star Division in 1999. The idea behind OpenDocument was to use a text-based XML format (compressed in a zip file to conserve disk space) in order to make it easy for other products to interoperate with it. The specification was finalized in 2005 and OpenOffice.org was the first software suite to support it. Other projects, such as KOffice, AbiWord, and IBM Workplace are adding support for the ODF format, either natively or through plug-in format translators.}
\par \pard\plain \s19\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
In today's highly networked world, it turns out that operability is a very useful thing to have, which is why Microsoft decided that they would also jump on the XML bandwagon, introducing a new XML-based file format (.docx) for Office 2003. Not only that, but the company is planning to make the next version of the Office XML format the default for Office 2007 (formerly known as Office 12). This means that when users of Office 2007 go to save a file, they will automatically save in .docx, not .doc.}
\par \pard\plain \s19\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
While most people don't consider file formats to be terribly exciting, the question of which format to adopt led to an increasingly dramatic series of announcements from the government of Massachusetts. In January 2005, the government }{{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "http://www.crn.com/sections/breakingnews/breakingnews.jhtml;jsessionid=GCCZBBT3QQVBGQSNDBOCKHSCJUMEKJVN?articleId=57701551" }{\fldrslt \cf2\ul\ulc0\langfe255\alang255\lang255\rtlch \ltrch\loch
approved}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}} Office XML 2003 as an appropriate file format, then in September of that year }{{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "http://arstechnica.com/news.ars/post/20050906-5279.html" }{\fldrslt \cf2\ul\ulc0\langfe255\alang255\lang255\rtlch \ltrch\loch
reversed}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}} their decision, stating that Office XML was unacceptable and that only OpenDocument and PDF files would be allowed. They went }{{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "http://arstechnica.com/news.ars/post/20051128-5637.html" }{\fldrslt \cf2\ul\ulc0\langfe255\alang255\lang255\rtlch \ltrch\loch
back again}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}} in November, stating that they were "very pleased" with Microsoft's submission of Office XML to the ECMA standards body, and that they were "optimistic that Office Open XML will meet our new standards for acceptable open formats." The champion of ODF in Massachusetts, CIO Peter Quinn, then suddenly announced his }{{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "http://arstechnica.com/news.ars/post/20060104-5895.html" }{\fldrslt \cf2\ul\ulc0\langfe255\alang255\lang255\rtlch \ltrch\loch
resignation}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}} in January. This announcement was followed with an assurance from Quinn's former boss that their position on ODF "remained unchanged" and that they were still committed to supporting that format.}
\par \pard\plain \s19\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Confused yet? The so-called "controversy" over the ODF switch has generated an unbelievable amount of press, and various groups are now busy pushing governments worldwide to switch over to the ODF format. This new "alliance" joins the groups SpreadOpenDocument.org, the OpenDocument Fellowship, and the "Friends of OpenDocument" in their quest to promote the format. My own inbox is now slowly filling up with pro-ODF announcements and press releases. The push seems overtly political, as evidenced by the rhetoric used by the ODF Alliance: }
\par \pard\plain \s25\li567\ri567\lin567\rin567\fi0\sb0\sa283\ql\widctlpar\faauto\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb240\sa60\keepn{\b\kerning1\langfe1033\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang1033\loch\f9
[...]}
\par }